let's talk a little bit about growing up
I'm grew up in Pittsburgh your father
ran an auto upholstery don't run it he
won't he worked there okay
so what was that like Mark and and how
did that inspire you I mean my dad
busted his ass I mean he worked six six
days a week left at seven at 7:00 7:30
in the morning got back at 6 or 7
o'clock lost his eye in an accident
doing upholstery
he had a staple break when he was
putting some covering on a car seat you
know it was it was a middle-class
upbringing my mom did odd jobs you know
they just wanted something better I mean
my grandparents came over from Russia
and you know my dad was the first
generation my uncles were the first
generation Americans like my mom too and
you know like every child of immigrants
they want it better for their kids you
know it's funny I mean a lot of people
grew up that way all right but now many
people end up like you so what do you
think that's the result of I think you
know everybody's got something that
they're good at and the hard part is
finding it and I found out early that I
was a good salesperson that I really
liked business you know like I like
sports I mean I read everything I
possibly could played sports as much as
I could just wasn't as good as I wanted
to be and and business was the same way
I mean as long as I could remember I was
buying and selling baseball cards
garbage bags whatever I could find
stamps to collectors but I was also
reading everything I possibly could
about business and you know I was that
unusual kid that I'd rather read about
Ted Turner then go to the movies and and
so I think that created a foundation of
my parents you know my dad used to
always say I don't understand what
you're doing but I'm glad you're doing
it and and so I have my ups and downs
along the way of course but um I just
think that I just I just put in the time
and was fortunate enough to really get
excited about business and that paid off
benefits over the long haul I mean you
almost have to have that drive like in
other words you can't fake it you can't
like pretend that you want to read about
Ted Turner and okay I'll skip one movie
I mean you're your soul yeah I mean you
can fake it to you make it in a lot of
areas particular if you
working for somebody else but at the end
of the day if you're going to be created
something you've got to make the effort
to be great at something whether it's
sports whether it's physics math science
business whatever it may be you know
it's not just a natural skill you've got
you've got to to learn and particularly
if you're in the technology industry
because it changes everyday you know
when I got started and in you know after
I got I got it was a bartender when I
first came to Dallas got into the PC
industry got fired started my own
company but there I learned early on
that there was always something new and
most people didn't put in the time to
learn it it's like now with artificial
intelligence lots of people talk about
artificial intelligence lots people talk
about machine learning and neural
networks not a lot of people are putting
in the time to take classes or do the
tutorials or to learn how to apply it to
business and that's what it takes and
and you know that's just something I've
always enjoyed so I've been fortunate at
no wait a minute are you doing that with
AI really what are you doing I mean I've
been on Amazon doing the machine
learning tutorials right now I'm going
through I've taken Python online classes
I really yeah absolutely if you go in my
bathroom there's a machine learning for
dummies book I just started JavaScript
neural networks there's a little
tutorial where they've got most of the
library brain Das and all the libraries
and it's not if you have a background in
programming it's not hard but I'm not
trying to be great at that but I want to
understand it so I understand all the
you know so I the nuance elements of it
and how it works so that I have an
advantage but where would that take you
like with your businesses here or the
Mavericks or you know everyone takes me
everywhere right I mean there's nothing
that AI won't impact as big as the M so
having been around a while I saw the
impact of pcs then I saw the impact of
local area networks then I saw the
impact of wide area networks then I saw
the impact of the internet then I saw
the impact of mobile then I saw the
impact of Wireless you know now I'm
seeing the impact of artificial
intelligence and a Dwarfs any of those
things and if I don't understand how to
apply it to my businesses I mean I
remember selling pcs
software and walking insane you don't
need to use that pen and paper on a you
know on a notepad or a ledger pad now
we're gonna give you a spreadsheet and
by the way here's a here's a spreadsheet
that cost four hundred ninety five
dollars and I had to pay to go get
trained on how to sell it which is crazy
now when you think about it but then we
said okay now you can play what if then
we said you can connect these pcs unless
I understood the technology how is that
going to explain it how was I going to
understand it unless I understand it now
how am I going to invest in it you know
then I gotta go trust somebody who says
oh yeah I know AI and maybe they do
maybe they don't and it's really easy
just ahead just that okay say you figure
it out that's just not my style so
you're building a base of knowledge and
then you think that at some point it's
gonna pay dividends and Tory has right I
mean if they if you truly believe a AI
is going to change everything how are
you going to understand what people are
doing to change everything unless you at
least have a foundational understanding
of it now I'm not going to build a
million layer neural network and try to
change the world and I'm not going to
show you I'm not gonna write a research
paper and saying here's how why the
lottery ticket approach works and you
can build smaller neural networks with
less data and be more you know resource
efficient but I can read that stuff and
understand that when somebody says ok
we're building this project and we need
this sized data set or this size data
set we need this amount of resources I
can ask questions and understand the
answers so he grew up in Pittsburgh went
to University of Indiana for a while
then you said you came here how have you
adopted this city why did this become
your home Dallas well I mean when I went
to IU I had a bunch of friends that
graduated it came down here and they're
like you got to get your ass down here
the weather's great the women are
beautiful the economy is good I said
wait back up and then I came down lived
six guys in a three-bedroom apartment
until I found my way and I've had a
blast and loved it ever since so how do
you describe yourself mark I mean I said
entrepreneur is that how you would
describe yourself what do you do for a
living
I Drive describe myself as a grinder um
you know I just like we talked about
learning
that's a grind but I love it you know
and I just
I think I've just learned what I'm good
at and learned to focus on those things
and and try to you know utilize those
skills to now you know not just be an
entrepreneur but probably more often now
invest in and help other entrepreneurs
okay so take us through your business
interest right now you have the
basketball team you write stuff for sure
meaning you have stuff here you can go
to Mark Cuban comm I list them all right
right and so really I mean I've got
Shark Tank and I've invested in 100-plus
companies there we sold a bunch so I
think I've got 70 that are active now
and you know it follows a normal
distribution probably ten are struggling
50 are doing great and Tanner are doing
it incredibly but I think now I've
really evolved some of my focus to
trying to help disadvantaged
entrepreneurs people who have less
opportunity I just invested with a woman
Arlen Hamilton who we together created a
little million dollar fund where she's
going out and finding ten businesses run
by people of color or disadvantaged
LGBTQ type communities and just opening
doors because I think my experience
applies to anybody right any
entrepreneur no matter what you're
trying to sell and I also think that
it's a great business opportunity simply
because the markets that they wanted to
sell to are underserved there just
aren't as many entrepreneurs so there's
more opportunity and so I think it makes
great business sense as well let's go
through some of these other things are
starting with Shark Tank uh-huh what's
Shark Tank like is it really a kick the
way it looks like yes I mean it's great
we start shooting here probably in a
couple of weeks June 12th or 13th I
think it is and the way it works
literally is we show up on set and Sony
Studios and I get there about 8:30 and
put on they're putting on a little bit
of makeup I throw on my suit like Kevin
mr. Wonderful's or launder Laurie they
have to get there two hours earlier
because they need things even more work
they did oh okay we've got a lot more
layer listening to that Kevin's got a
lot more landmass to cover lorries lorry
but in any event we start shooting at
about 9:00
and they just bring in deal after deal
after deal we know nothing about them
they'll say you know this is you know
Joe and Sally and this is the name of
the business and they'll walk in and
give our pitch now on television it
might take 10 to 14 minutes in real life
if it's a stupid deal it might take 20
minutes and then before we were all out
and then if it's an intense deal it
could go 90 minutes two hours and then
they'd have to edit it down but it's our
money it's all real we know nothing
about them if we decide to do a deal
then we have the opportunity to do due
diligence after my back because
sometimes they'll embellish it's a
polite way to put it you know my widget
cost a dollar to make and we sold a
million of them when in reality the
widget costs $10 and they've sold six
then Helen sometimes yeah that does
happen more often than you think
I'm the producers of spokes supposed to
UM ferret that stuff out but yeah not a
lot doesn't happen as much as we'd like
so yeah we'll do due diligence and about
60% of my deals close um the other
little thing is of the deals that
present to us and we'll see in any given
season 250 to 300 that are presented
probably 25% of people who pitch us they
come in are taped and pitched to us
don't even make it on air mmm for a
variety of reasons yeah and let me ask
you about your entertainment business
the movies and 29:29 Magnolia what's
that all about
well back in 2002 thousand I guess it
was after I sold Yahoo right after I
bought the Mavs I started the world's
first all high-definition TV network
when everybody was saying
high-definition television is not going
to happen
I created a network called HD net and HD
net movies and there was very little
content for it I mean literally this is
when high-def televisions cost fifteen
thousand dollars and everybody said who
the hell is gonna pay fifteen thousand
dollars for a TV and I was I went around
telling everybody no you just wait those
televisions are gonna drop like a rock
in terms of price and everybody's gonna
want one that goes on their wall instead
of this big ugly hunks of analog TV so I
had that but we didn't have content and
so we wanted to go out there and create
content and we also Bart Landmark
Theatres which we have since sold but we
wanted that vertical and
we can show it on television put it
online offer DVDs put put it video on
demand and I'll also offer in theaters
and so we created we created 29 29
productions first where we produce
movies what does that name mean both 29
29 was because the address for audio net
the the streaming company we thought it
was 29 29 Elm Street okay so that's
where that came from and then so we had
movie production 29 29 we had Landmark
Theaters we also bought ricer
entertainment which we've since sold
that own Oh get Hogan's Heroes and some
others so that we could put it on HDNet
HT net films and then landmark and so
the idea was have a vertically
integrated so we were the first company
to to put create to produce a movie put
it online download we did basically
offer a day and day release of it called
bubble and we we've been doing Magnolia
and 29:29 productions ever since the
others yeah I'm ignoring 29 $20 we've
sold one of all these businesses tell
you about the economy right now what do
you think the outlook that's a good
question so some of my smaller shark
tank companies that are that resell
products are getting crushed by the
tariffs I mean I've got one that's may
go out of business simply because
tariffs at 10% were one thing tariffs
are 25%
they just can't compete there's other
companies that have bigger and better
supply chains where they were more
creative and were within 5% of their
prices but now with the tariffs it's
it's almost impossible in the
uncertainty it's made it very very
difficult but beyond that I mean
business is going well in urban markets
and it's a little bit tougher in smaller
markets so I mean it pretty much mirrors
what you see in the general economy
right